# Data Science Portfolio
Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for academic, self learning, and hobby purposes. Presented in the form of iPython Notebooks.

_Note: Data used in the projects (accessed under data directory) is for demonstration purposes only._

## Contents

- ### Machine Learning

	- [Predicting Boston Housing Prices](): A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
	- [Counterfeit banknote detector](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Detecteur%20de%20faux%20billet.ipynb): A ML model that would be able to automatically identify the real ones from the counterfeit banknotes. And this simply from certain dimensions of the note and the elements that compose it. Comparing two prediction methods (Logistic Regression and K-Means).
	- [ML Classification](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Classification%20ML.ipynb): Test the hierarchical ascending classification, with a dendrogram as a visualization. 
	Use the k-means method, in order to refine the analysis and compare the results of the two clustering methods + analyze the centroids of the classes. 
	Carry out a PCA in order to visualize the results of your analysis, understand the groups, the links between the variables, the links between the individuals ...
	- [Deep Learning: Computing Vision](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/tree/main/DeepLearning_Computing_Vision):  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST. Object Tracking, Object and Face detection, Siamese Networks , Auto encoders, etc ...
	- [Titanic Dataset - Modelisation](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/titanic-gridsearchcv.ipynb): Modelisation of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using GridSearchCV.
	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame_ 

- ### Natural Language Processing

	- [3-way Sentiment Analysis for Tweets](): 3-way polarity (positive, negative, neutral) classification system for tweets, without using NLTK's sentiment analysis engine.

	- [Cross language Information Retrieval](): Cross language information retrieval system (CLIR) which, given a query in German, searches text documents written in English.

	_Tools: NLTK, scikit_

- ### Data Analysis and Visualisation
	- __Python__
		- [Marketing Analysis](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Data%20Analysis%20Marketing.ipynb): Analysis of the weak and strong points, customers behavior, KPI, etc ... for a large, well-known online generalist bookstore (Lapage).
		- [Titanic Dataset - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Pre_process_Titanic.ipynb): Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations.
		- [Stock Market Analysis for Tech Stocks](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Prediction%20Stocks.ipynb): Analysis of technology stocks including change in price over time, daily returns, and stock behaviour prediction.
		- [Detect Outliers](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/D%C3%A9tecter%20les%20valeurs%20aberrantes.ipynb): Detecting the anomalies from multiple dataframes for an online wine merchant.
		- [Health study - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/Noxx23/-data-science-portfolio-/blob/main/Etude%20sous-nutrition.ipynb): Exploratory Data Analysis of FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) dataset hosted on their website. Undernutrition study. Find the proportion of people undernourished, Find the theoretical number of people who could be fed, Proportion Animal / Human Feed + Global Losses.
		
	_Tools: Pandas, Plotly, Seaborn and Matplotlib_
	

- ### Micro Projects: 

	- __Python__
		- [ML with Logistic Regression](): Using Logistic Regression to predict whether an internet user clicked an ad or not.
		- [ML with K Nearest Neighbours](): Using KNN to classify instances from a fake dataset into two target classes, while choosing the best value for K using the elbow method.
		- [ML with Decision Trees and Random Forests](): Using Decision Trees and Random Forests to predict whether a lender will pay their loan back. Uses publically available data from LendingClub.com
		- [Movie Recommendations using Recommender Systems](): A micro project to build a recommendation system that makes movie recommendations based on user review similarities. 


If you liked what you saw, want to have a chat with me about the portfolio, work opportunities, or collaboration, shoot an email at sean.buxton23@gmail.com. 

### Support My Work

If this project inspired you, gave you ideas for your own portfolio or helped you, please consider [buying me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/seanbuxton) ❤️.   
